Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome tech lead for Quartz,
Derek Clegg.
Welcome.
Welcome to the last afternoon session,
or the first afternoon session
of the last day of WWDC.
My name is Derek Clegg,
and I'm going to be
talking today about Quartz.
There's my name.
So what are we going to talk about today?
Well, I'm going to focus on the
rendering APIs in Quartz.
If some of you may have gone to
Peter Grappanino's session on Wednesday,
you might remember that
there's two layers of Quartz.
There's the bottom layer,
sort of the Windows server,
and the top layer.
We're going to focus
really on the top layer.
That's the part you can use in DP4.
We're going to talk about how you'd
use Quartz in your application today,
and also have a little demo.
So what I hope you'll learn by the
end of the day is what Quartz is,
when you should use it in your app,
maybe when you shouldn't as well,
what APIs there are that
we have available for you,
and how would you actually go about
using the APIs in your application.
So you've undoubtedly
seen this diagram many,
many times,
where the little part in the green box.
And to spread that out a little bit,
Here's a little bit
detailed view of Quartz.
So as I mentioned, there's really sort of
the underlying-- Quartz,
actually, just to clarify,
Quartz is really sort of the
orange piece in this diagram.
Underneath a lot of other parts of
the technology is the Windows Server,
the Core Graphics Services.
That's the part that manages
your screen real estate,
brings Windows up and back
from the display and so on.
What I'm going to focus on is
the Core Graphics rendering,
the little part up in the
upper left-hand corner.
As you can see,
the other technologies that we have
live on top of Core Graphic Services,
and those are, of course, available,
and you're probably
familiar with most of those.
So what I'm focusing
on is the newer piece,
the rendering layer itself.
So what's Quartz really?
Well, it's a 2D drawing engine.
We're 2D only.
We really leave 3D to
other parts of the system.
We're focusing primarily on just
providing a really great 2D model.
We use technology,
or we base our APIs on Adobe's PDF model.
The PDF spec is great.
It provides a really great
way of giving high fidelity
images and pages for printing.
We've adopted that pretty much wholesale.
It's also a very clean,
very nice API that we leverage.
What Quartz does on the back end, I mean,
you know,
you sort of tell us to do something.
On the back end,
what we're putting out is, of course,
screen display.
Anything that might
go on the screen goes,
in the long run, through the back end of
the Core Graphics layer,
of the Core Graphics Services layer.
We also generate bitmap images.
We generate PDF streams
and PostScript streams,
as well.
And Quartz, the whole package,
is really the low-level services
to get bits on the screen.
Of course,
the rendering layer is just one way that
you get into the whole set of things,
but in the long run,
Quartz as a package is the way
to get stuff onto the screen.
So what sort of API, I mean,
what is this API that we have for Quartz?
Well, as I said, it's the way to get into
the rendering layer,
and it's a really nice set of 2D
drawing primitives based on PDF.
Now one thing that I want
to mention is what we don't
really provide now in the API.
We're not really giving
access to window management.
There's a lot of semantics about
the way windows are managed.
There's things like, you know,
which little candy does
what when you click on it.
We're not really at that level.
That's really the higher level toolkits.
So if you want to do any
sort of window management,
you should really go
through Cocoa or Carbon.
That's the right place.
The other thing that we're not providing
is machine-to-machine displays.
So you can't sort of say on this machine,
"Oh, I want you to draw something over
here on that machine." We don't
do any sort of that type of thing.
Timbuk2 is an example of
an app that does that.
So the question would come up, of course,
well, there's this nice API.
When should you use it?
Well,
It's a tricky question to answer.
The truth is, Cocoa or Carbon are often
the right thing to use.
For one thing, Quartz is Mac OS X only.
If your application needs
to run on OS 9 and OS X,
you probably should not use Quartz.
In that case,
you should really stick with Carbon.
For Cocoa, Cocoa has this nice
object-oriented layer.
It's all more modern and so on.
We're very function-based.
If you want that type of abstraction,
you might want to go with Cocoa.
Both those frameworks provide a
lot more of additional things,
like NSString and stuff like that,
than we're providing.
But there are cases when you
would want to use Quartz.
A good example would
probably be a situation,
maybe you have an application where
you've abstracted out the drawing
piece of the application from the
UI and the behavior and so on.
And maybe that application
lives on multiple platforms,
so on Windows you go directly to
GDI with that little drawing piece,
and maybe on Mac OS 9 you've
gone directly to Quick Draw.
So a situation like that,
maybe for Mac OS X you want to
call Quartz directly in that part.
That's one example.
There are other cases
where you'd want to,
so it's really something that you'll
have to sort of weigh for yourself.
Suppose you decided to
use Quartz directly.
This is sort of a general
overview of how that works.
Of course,
you'll be calling Carbon or Cocoa,
and they call into us.
Cocoa calls into the
rendering layer itself.
Carbon, of course, will call down to the
Core Graphic Services layer.
And then your application
can call Quartz directly.
So they sort of can all co-ex- well,
Cocoa and Carbon can't
necessarily co-exist,
but your application call Quartz
interleaved with calls that Cocoa or
Carbon might be making to Quartz.
You don't have to do anything special.
There's no funky stuff that goes
on to allow you to use it with-
intermixed with the other frameworks.
And of course,
this diagram shows on the back end what's
coming out would be screen rendering,
PDF, PostScript, bitmap, raster data.
So you get all of that for free,
of course,
because you're using Quartz in any case.
So the Quartz display model.
Those of you who are familiar with
PostScript or PDF are probably
pretty aware of the way they work.
It's basically a painter's algorithm.
You take some paint and you put down
some more paint on top and put down
some more paint on top and so on.
You just build up your image that way,
sort of from back to front.
Now, because we have transparency,
the paints are more like watercolors
instead of oil things that are opaque,
but you nevertheless get a nice image
out of it as you're building it up.
We're also--
From the ground up,
we've striven to be device
and resolution independent.
So we're not really dependent
upon the number of dots per inch.
We're not really dependent upon
the number of-- what your pixel
depth is and stuff like that.
We're really going for a situation
where when you use the API,
it doesn't matter where you're going to
a printer or going to a screen display
or any particular type of screen display,
you should get the same nice results.
So your application doesn't
need to worry about that.
For font support,
of course we support TrueType.
We've had that for a long time.
In developer preview 4,
we've added support for Type 1
that's not completely finished,
so you will notice some places
where it doesn't quite work.
Excuse me.
But that will certainly be
done in a future release.
And of course we have CID font support.
CID fonts are used for languages where
there's a large number of glyphs.
Chinese or Japanese are good examples.
And you need something a little bit
more sophisticated to manage the
big glyph set in order to show text.
So we have support for CID fonts as well,
both the CID TrueType and CID Type 1.
And then we're also,
because we do care about
device independence and so on,
we also support device independent color.
And we leverage ColorSync for that,
and Apple technology does a great job of
giving us device independence for color.
And then one thing I want to clarify,
some people have asked me, well,
you know, they remember the days when
we used Display Postscript.
And the model there is you
have a client and a server,
and if I say to the client,
"Draw me a rectangle," a little
byte stream gets wadded up and
gets sent over to the server,
and the server interprets
that byte stream and says,
"Oh, draw a rectangle."
The rectangle gets drawn.
We're not that.
The Quartz display model doesn't use
sort of a PDF stream in between the two,
the client-server side.
Instead, we share memory.
The client and the server have
a single shared memory buffer.
And on the client side, you say,
"Draw me a rectangle," it
gets drawn right there.
The server takes it and
flushes that to the screen.
So there's not some
intermediate representation,
and that's a concern for some
people who are worried that
it might not be efficient.
So let me give you an
overview of our API.
As I said before, we're very low-level.
We're entirely in C.
No objective-oriented stuff, no Java,
no other things.
And because we're trying to
maybe increase consistency
with other parts of the system,
we really do try to follow
the core foundation style,
both for naming, conventions,
and other things.
So as a consequence,
the names are all pretty
much exactly the same style.
So there's CG, the prefix,
everything starts with CG so
that you don't get the namespace
pollution you do in other frameworks.
There's the class,
and I use that pretty loosely.
I don't mean that in an
object-oriented sense.
I mean that as sort of the
collection of common functions
that this function belongs to.
And then a verb and an object,
so do something to something.
Here's an example, CG context show text.
show some text in a context.
And we'll get into that a
little bit more down the road.
So what sort of classes,
collections of functions
do we have available?
These are a few and I'm going
to go into each one of them
in a little bit more detail.
Get a little bit more water.
So, affine transforms.
What we do is we model collections
of data just as a C struct,
right?
There's really nothing special about it.
It's a simple C struct that provides all
the data you need for a particular thing.
An affine transform is
one example of this.
We have some functions that
let you create and use and
modify the affine transform.
An affine transform,
for those of you who are
not familiar with them,
is a 3x2 matrix that lets you transform a
two-dimensional space in a very nice way.
You can do rotations, scaling, skewing,
pretty much the standard sorts
of things that you might do if
you were trying to do a pretty
straightforward display of things.
Whoops.
The nice thing about affine
transforms is that they form
a group under multiplication.
So if I scale or skew
something and do this,
I can do this.
those two things one after another,
what I end up with is
another affine transform.
In Quartz, what we use them for is
transforming our user space
from one orientation to another.
We can use them to flip or rotate,
the type of stuff that you might
want to do if you're doing drawing.
We have a couple of
convenience functions.
There's functions to create
a rotation or a scale.
We also have some other ones,
some simple ones.
For example,
CG Affine Transform Invert takes
an Affine Transform and inverts it.
We also have some geometry structures.
In this case, we have points,
which are just an X, Y position in space,
a size, which is a width and a height,
and a rectangle, an origin,
a point in space,
and a width and a height.
They use floating point values for the
representation of the data because we're
basically a vector-based drawing model.
We really want to have
the device independence,
and floating point works
very well for that.
The functions we provide in
terms of manipulating these
objects are pretty simple.
You can create one, of course.
You can do some simple
rectangular operations,
such as intersect two rectangles,
get a rectangle, or union two rectangles,
and get the rectangular union.
There are some convenience things,
such as this example,
CG_REC_CONTAINS_POINT_RETURNS_1,
if a point is inside a REC.
That can be useful for
certain applications.
So what I've talked about
so far is some pretty,
those are, you know, you can imagine,
very simple structures.
Now we're getting into something
a little bit more complicated,
a little bit more data
associated with them.
Color spaces are the way,
are the collection of information we
need to represent a color in Quartz.
We have functions that let
you work with device-dependent
and device-independent colors.
Device-dependent colors are, well,
let me, device-independent colors,
that's very important when you have,
for example, a magazine illustration.
Say you want to scan it in and
bring it up on your screen and you
want the red value here to exactly
match so that the page here and the
display here are exactly the same.
You don't want to use device-independent
color in that case because
you really don't want the,
you want the color to be independent of
the device it's being represented on.
Device-dependent colors are more
useful when you don't care so much.
You sort of, you scan it in,
but you want like a nice red value.
You wouldn't want some
blue value or something,
but you're not precisely concerned
that they match 100%. So both of
those are very useful in different
contexts and they're both,
we support both of them.
What we provide in Quartz,
what we use in Quartz to represent
a color is just a C array of floats.
So we're not doing anything
more special than that.
Typically for like, for example, RGB,
you'd have three float values.
CMYK would be four
float values and so on.
We.
Have convenience functions which let
you specify an RGB value directly,
but we're not, but in, you know,
the primitive is an array
of floating point values.
So,
what color spaces do we really provide?
In the device-dependent color spaces,
we support gray,
which is just a monochrome 0 to 1 value,
black and white.
RGB, which you're familiar with,
of course, for screen displays, and CMYK,
which is used in printing.
Device-independent colors,
the two special cases are
calibrated gray and calibrated RGB.
Those are both essentially
subsets of ICC profiles.
Some of you might be familiar
with that from ColorSync,
which uses those.
To specify a device-independent color,
the calibrated gray and RGB are
just simple special cases of those.
But we do, using leverage from ColorSync,
we do have support for the
full range of ICC profiles,
so you can work with
those as you need to,
if that's what your application requires.
You sort of have the device
dependent and device independent
color spaces are sort of two axes.
Indexed is a little special.
Indexed works by essentially
associating with a number
from 0 to some higher number,
0 to 255, for example,
for each one of those numbers
is associated a single color
and a given color space.
It's a way to sort of compactly represent
a set of colors that really aren't
the full range of all possible colors.
GIF files, for example,
some of you might be familiar with those,
use index color space essentially where
each number from 0 to 255 represents
a single RGB value for the image.
So we support those in Quartz
and they can be very powerful
in some circumstances.
An example of the functions that we have,
CG color space create device
RGB creates the device RGB color space.
Now, we also have support for images.
In our parlance,
images are two-dimensional
arrays of sample data.
You have a width and a height, you know,
a bitmap, right?
A width and a height, for every pixel,
you have a pixel depth,
number of samples per pixel,
might be RGB, for example,
would be three samples.
In addition,
the image can have an alpha channel,
so it can basically specify
coverage information.
So not,
if you don't want all of the image
to be displayed in a big rectangle,
you would use the alpha channel
to knock out parts of the image
when you're displaying it.
We also provide a function to
let you create an image mask,
which you can think of as
just pure alpha coverage.
It's just coverage information,
and you would use that typically
to draw a color through there,
and so you'd end up with a, with a color.
It's just the parts where the,
where the coverage mask was non-zero,
actually drawn on the display.
An example, a trivial example,
CG image create,
though it does take an awful lot of
arguments to actually create an image.
So what I've talked about so far is
really sort of data-bearing objects.
They don't really have any
behavior associated with them.
They just sort of contain information,
contain state.
And those are useful, but, you know,
it's like, well, they don't do anything.
So the drawing context is actually the
thing that carries behavior in Quartz.
It's the thing that does something.
You can think of the drawing context
as your connection to the device.
The device might be the screen display.
It might be a PDF file
that you're creating.
It might be a bitmap.
But the drawing context
really is associated with the
thing that you're drawing to.
Now, in addition,
it's not just the connection.
It actually maintains state for you.
Similar to QuickDraw,
we actually have a model where
you set a bunch of state,
and then you ask the drawing
context to do something for you.
So you might want to draw a dotted rect,
for example.
So you would set the dash pattern,
and you would set the line width,
and then you would say, oh,
now go draw the rect.
When that rect gets drawn,
it uses the information from the
graphic state to display the rectangle.
And, oh I should just mention,
these are some of the things that
are part of the graphic state.
Now, it's nice to have a graphic state,
but it's even nicer
to have more than one.
We actually allow you to,
again following the PDF PostScript model,
you can save the graphic state.
So you essentially are making
a copy of the current state.
And then you can modify that
to your heart's content.
When you restore it,
you go back to the original one.
So that's really important if
you don't want to interfere
with other people's drawing.
You save the graphic state,
change whatever, and then restore it.
You don't have to track
that information yourself.
It's a stack,
so you can save and save and save
and save and save the graphic state.
And then you can restore, restore,
restore, restore, restore,
and you get back to the original
graphic state that you're in.
So that's actually a
really nice property.
And again, that follows the
PDF PostScript model very closely.
So what sorts of things can
you do to a drawing context?
These are all parts of
the graphic state as well.
You can modify the
display transformation.
That's used if you want to, for example,
draw a rotated piece of text.
You might change the
display transformation,
rotate, draw your text,
which will go drawn in a nice angle,
and then you might rotate back.
Again, we're using the affine
transform to specify-- that's
the sort of the primitive.
The full affine transform specifies how
the display is transformed or how your
drawing context state is transformed.
There are convenience functions for doing
a simple rotation or a simple scale.
Then the heart of what you do in a
graphics context is you specify a path.
You specify a path to draw something,
to fill, to stroke, whatever.
But the real meat of it is a path.
In Quartz, we're really going for
something as simple as possible,
but not too simple.
Every path in Quartz is
composed of three parts:
a line, or a collection of these, a line,
a Bezier curve, or a quadratic curve.
Everything else is built up from that.
We do have in the API convenience
functions for creating an arc,
but we approximate that by
a sequence of Bezier curves.
We also have functions for
working with rectangles,
because those are just so common
that it's silly to have to build
that up every time yourself.
Now once you have the path specified,
you want to do something with it.
What do you do?
Well, again,
we're following the PDF model here.
Typically you want to fill the path
or you want to stroke the path.
Those things are often
done with different color.
It's pretty rare you fill and
stroke it with the same color.
So those two things are split out.
There's a fill color and a stroke color.
There's also a fill and stroke
color space because since the color
itself doesn't convey any notion
of how to interpret its values,
You also specify the color
space to the graphic state.
I mean, as part of the graphic state.
And then, as I said,
once you've set a color,
you can fill the path,
you can stroke the path,
you can fill and stroke
the path in one operation,
sort of a sequence of things like that.
And then another nice
thing that you can do is,
once you've specified a path,
and it can be any path you want,
you can clip to it.
What that means is that
from that point on,
nothing will be displayed
outside of that path's region.
And then it turns out that the clip
region is part of the graphic state,
so you can actually do
some really nice things.
For example,
maybe you want to draw a nice picture
of an ocean through a porthole.
So you might draw, well,
what you first do is you'd
save the graphic state,
because you don't want to
screw up other people later.
You draw as part of your path a circle,
you clip to it,
and then you draw your image of
the seascape in the background.
Well, nothing is going to be drawn
outside of that circle.
So you'll get a nice image.
You'll get a nice image of the
seascape through your porthole.
Then we do a restore
of the graphic state.
You're back to the original,
and the clip path is gone.
And so now you can draw
any other part of the,
maybe the rest of the room or something.
So that's actually a pretty
nice thing that the clip path
is part of the graphic state.
Oh, and I should also mention
in terms of paths,
it's not just a single, say,
a single arc.
I mean, a path could be disjoint
pieces of like a line,
a rectangle, a circle, a circle,
a circle.
That whole wad would be considered
one path that you can work with.
And then finally,
for the drawing context,
clearly you can display an image.
Once you've created one, you can draw it.
It respects the parameters
of the graphic state.
So if you've rotated it
and you've clipped it,
that image will be clipped and
rotated exactly as you want.
We handle all that stuff for you.
You can select fonts in the API,
and then you can display text.
So I should mention with displaying text,
we're not really in the
business of Unicode display.
The functions that we
provide are pretty basic.
Go to a point and show some glyphs,
show some characters.
If you want sort of Unicode
translation and that type of thing,
that stuff's really hard,
and you should really go to
a higher-level framework.
At Sui, Carbon,
both those provide functions
to allow you to do this.
Cocoa has a great text display layout
system that is all Unicode-based.
So really,
if you want that type of thing,
and you want to go to a higher level,
we're working at a
little bit lower level.
But it might still be
sufficient for your needs.
Now, of course, Steve showed a bunch of
PDF files getting displayed.
Peter Graffagnino on
Wednesday talked about PDF.
So one question you might have
is what sort of things can you do
in the Quartz API with PDF files?
Well, in DP4,
at the level of the Quartz API,
we don't have functions that
are public for you to use.
If you want to do, for example,
a page display, you really should
probably go through Cocoa,
or Carbon, I should say.
Here in Cocoa,
you can create an NSPDF image rep
that will display pages for you.
If you're Carbon,
you can use a QuickTime graphic importer.
Unfortunately, for DP4,
we don't have API in Quartz that lets you
directly display a page from a PDF file.
We will in a future version,
which I think will be very nice.
A typical example might be if
you had a PDF file that contained
your logo for your business,
and you just draw it up in
some part of your screen,
and then you'd fill in the
rest of it with either Cocoa,
Carbon, or Quartz calls.
And of course,
it's just like an image in that respect.
It will respect all the
parameters of the graphic state,
so you could rotate the PDF file,
or scale it, or skew it,
whatever you want.
All that stuff is handled for you.
All right.
We'll also provide, post-DP4,
support to create a PDF drawing context.
I'll talk a little bit later about how
you actually get a hold of a context.
Right now, though,
there's no way to sort of create one of
your own that you can then stream PDF to.
Post-DP4 will let you,
will give you API that will
let you create a PDF context.
You can do a whole bunch
of Quartz calls into it,
and what comes out on the
back end will be a PDF file.
So, how would you use quartz if you
actually decided to in your application?
I'm not going to talk
too much about Cocoa,
basically you want to
get a context for NSVU.
There's a good example,
a small example of how to do
this in the Sketch example.
It's I think in system library,
or system developer examples,
sketch.app or roughly that,
you'll find it.
And that's actually has an
example of how to do this.
For Carbon, which probably more of
you are interested in,
the way you get a drawing context to
work with is from your graph port.
And they're really,
you can think of them as like
a one to one correspondence.
If you have a graph port,
you can get a drawing context.
As I said before,
you can keep using the graph port
while you're using the context.
There's nothing that sort of stops
you from doing one or the other.
Post-DP4, as I mentioned before,
you'll be able to create a
PDF context that you can write to
and PDF comes out on the back end.
We'll also provide you with
a bitmap generation context.
For example,
you can create an image for a bitmap
that has all of the coordinates drawing
in the bitmap that you can then take and
convert to a JPEG file or maybe send it
to a printer or some other use for it.
That will be available post-DP4.
So if you decide, oh,
I want to use this API, it's really cool,
where do you find it?
The header files are in the
core graphics framework.
Somebody the other day was asking me,
I don't see any Quartz
frameworks anywhere.
And that's because they're in
the core graphics framework.
For DP4, there's documentation
in the header files.
There's comments before each function.
I realize it's not
official documentation,
but it's available in DP4.
Post-DP4, we should have documentation
available on the developer website.
We'll also probably have some
examples of code that uses Quartz,
and you can use that to get
an idea of how to use it.
I believe the demo we're going to
show you later will be up shortly.
So now actually I'd like to show
you the demo and I'd like to welcome
Mike Marinkovich up on stage,
who's going to lead you through how he
used Quartz in his Carbon application.
Well thank you very much Derek.
So as Derek mentioned,
what we're showing today
is a Carbon application.
What makes this Carbon application
special is the fact that we've modified
it to take advantage of core graphics.
So, this application's been a
long time in the making.
It's been started off as a Mac OS 8 app.
We eventually ported it to Carbon,
and now we've modified it once again
to take advantage of Core Graphics.
So the first thing we did to create
this Core Graphics project is we moved
our source files over to Mac OS X,
and we created a project builder project,
imported all our source files.
So, what you're seeing up on the
screen is our project builder
project called Carbon Draw.
Carbon Draw is a vector-based
drawing application.
It's Carbon, but it uses Core Graphics
for its rendering.
So a couple interesting notes.
Derek was pointing out
the frameworks usage.
And one thing we had to do to our project
was import the core graphics framework.
And you'll see here where the mouse is,
we have imported that.
And that's under the project menu,
add a framework.
And that is in system
libraries frameworks,
which you've probably
heard a lot of this week.
So from here,
why don't I launch the application,
and I'll show you what we've done.
Hopefully it doesn't have to recompile.
So at first glance,
you'll notice the app looks
like any other Carbon app.
It's got standard event manager calls,
standard window dragging, event handling,
even Apple events.
It's just a regular old Carbon app
that we call Core Graphics.
So the first thing I'll
show you is a line,
simply.
And this app allows us
to resize the object,
drag it around,
can make the line width a little bigger,
drag the object around.
So one of the great features of
Core graphics is the fact that
we have anti-aliased graphics.
So to demonstrate this,
I will bring up a little app that
shows us effectively fat bits,
and you'll notice that
the edge is anti-aliased.
So we have real clean-looking,
nice graphics with Core graphics.
So another feature we took
advantage of was line caps.
Now, if I make this a little bigger,
you will be able to see that we have
Quartz is a flat end on this.
And what this is,
is this is the butt line cap.
Now the butt line cap is rendering
from the origin to the destination
and giving you a square end.
Well, we also have other line caps,
and one of which would
be the round line cap.
So we have a nice round edge.
And once again,
if I bring up the fat bits application,
you'll notice that it's
anti-aliased as well.
So we can also apply the square line cap,
which gives you relatively
the same as the butt line cap,
except for the rendering occurs half
the line width before the origin and
half the line width after the origin,
giving you a square pen.
So, besides that,
we're able to apply some
other aspects to this object,
such as Derek mentioned, LineDash.
So if I make this a little smaller...
We can apply a line dash to this,
and this will give us, in this case,
just a square line dash,
but since the dashes are
all individual lines,
we can apply a line cap
to each one of those.
So if I can apply
I can apply the round line
cap to it as an example,
and we have round line caps
on the individual lines,
and I can also apply the butt line cap.
We supply the dash to
Core Graphics as an array,
so if we had, in this case we're using
an array of two items,
a length of the dash and
a length of the space,
but you can also apply as
many as you would like.
So if we wanted to make the dashes
smaller and say apply the round line cap,
we could have little round
circles as our line dash.
So from here,
a lot of people have asked if we can
actually render with Quickdraw and
Core Graphics into the same buffers.
Well, what we're doing for our selection
process is we're using Quickdraw
in XOR mode to render the line.
So if I drag this out,
you'll notice that we're using XOR mode
and the edges are fairly jagged.
That's Quickdraw.
And you'll also notice
that the ends of the line,
the line caps, are pointed,
which is the effect of Quickdraw's
hanging pen drawing algorithm,
which is really far from optimal.
If you look at the
Core Graphics line above it,
you'll see much nicer graphics.
So I release that and we
have a Core Graphics object.
So from here,
I'll delete these two items.
I'd like to show you rectangles.
So as with Quick Draw, in Core Graphics,
we can draw rectangles,
and we get the anti-alias
graphics as well.
So if I make this a little bigger,
I'll show you another feature,
and that is line joins.
So in Core Graphics,
you can apply a line join to this item,
so wherever the lines meet,
in this case with the rectangle,
you have four corners,
you can apply a join.
So what we're seeing here
is the mitered line join.
We can also apply...
Other line joints such as round.
So now we have rounded corners and
I'll bring up a little fat bits to
show you the rounded corners again.
And for you QuitDraw folks,
you'll notice that the interior
of the rectangle is still square,
which is different from
QuitDraw's rendering algorithm.
So we can also apply another line join,
which is the bevel line join,
which is another nice effect.
So from here,
I'll also show you that we can
apply line dash to this object.
So what we have here is we
have the butt line dash,
and I can apply all the
other line dashes to it,
or the other line caps to it.
So you'll notice that
here we have rounded,
but we still have our
Our line join application to this.
So, in this case we have bevel,
and if we move this around,
you'll notice that the
corners are beveled,
but yet we have a rounded line dash.
So it's an interesting effect.
So, another interesting thing is
that Core graphics can interact
with the rest of the toolbox,
or I should say it's easy to
interact with the Carbon toolbox.
And for the demo, we set up a fill color.
So, I'll bring up the color picker,
and we're looking at the standard
Mac OS color picker on Mac OS X,
the crayons.
We'll pick a new color, let's say yellow,
so it's not too bright.
Okay,
and now we have a fill color of yellow.
Well, what this demonstrates is it's
easy to convert an RGB color,
a Macintosh RGB color,
which is four shorts,
into a floating point RGB color,
the more modern floating point
RGB color that Core Graphics uses.
And we can also change the stroke color,
just so I can show you that
we can actually do this.
Pick purple.
So from here,
I'd like to move on to something else.
I'll try and pick a little
bit more useful colors.
I don't want to blind you.
So we can also draw ovals,
as Derek mentioned.
So we have an oval with
nice anti-aliased edges,
which is a nice change.
And we can also apply
the line dash to this.
You'll notice you can resize this,
and Core Graphics dynamically
reconfigures where the dashes
are and even get the nice
bending effects in the corners.
So, there are other architecture changes
that we took advantage of in this
application that aren't apparent here.
On the old Mac OS 8 application,
we used an off-screen to buffer all these
objects and copy bits them to the screen.
Well, that was quite a bit of work
and we also had to do...
We're going to be rendering
in different spaces.
So we'd be rendering in our off-screen
when we really wanted to show it on
the screen and so forth and so on.
So what we're doing in this application
is we've taken advantage of the
fact that the windows are buffered.
So we render directly into our window,
and when we're done
rendering we just call flush.
The graphics system keeps track of
what we've changed in the window,
and it flushes only that
that has been changed.
So we can get relatively flicker-free,
if not completely flicker-free
drawing by using this method.
So if I...
Create a few objects here.
All going to be the same color,
but maybe I'll set the background color.
Something a little different here.
You'll notice that we can drag
these objects around flicker-free.
Hopefully on this display it's
flicker-free without doing too much work.
So we've taken advantage of the
low-level architecture for our buffering.
So from here,
I'd like to turn it back over to Derek,
where he is going to talk about
some of the techniques we use to
make this application possible.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
As a second example,
here's how we draw the ovals
that Mike was showing you.
What we want to do is play a trick.
Instead of actually drawing an oval,
what we're going to do is draw a circle.
But we're going to scale the
drawing context so that we actually
stretch it out to get a nice oval.
That's a pretty convenient trick because
it's really hard to actually do all the
math to figure out how to draw the oval.
It's really nice to just draw the circle.
So what do we do?
Well,
we begin by saving the graphic state.
We want to have our changes
not affect other people.
Then we do begin path.
We start a path.
And then we scale the
transformation matrix.
We scale an X and Y by the amount we
want to stretch so that we get the oval.
We then add an arc to the path.
This is one of the convenience
functions I mentioned earlier.
This takes a center
radius and then an angle,
0 to 2 pi in this case.
We're going to draw the whole circle.
And then whether it's
clockwise or counterclockwise.
And then we close the path.
And then we... Once we've...
We've done that.
We specified the path.
We fill it.
We just fill it with the current
color from the graphic state.
And then because we're done
working with the graphic state,
we restore it back to what it was.
You want to have those things balanced.
So that's a pretty simple
example of drawing an oval.
Most of the demo has about as
much code as this for each one
of the different little pieces.
So Quartz does an awful lot for you.
So just to summarize
before we get to Q&A,
what we're providing is a pretty
straightforward low-level 2D API.
That's the goal, and that's, I think,
what we're providing.
You want to sort of think about
using Quartz when it makes
sense in your application.
It probably doesn't make sense to
write your whole app in Quartz.
I don't know, maybe,
but I would think not.
The toolkits above,
Cocoa and Carbon they're great.
They have lots of things
available for you to work with.
There will be times you might want
to drop down to the level of Quartz.
When that makes sense do that.
But you're going to have to
decide that question for yourself
for your own application.
And then finally we're not done.
The API that is in DP4
is our first set of API.
We're not going to take anything away,
but we're planning on adding more.
So as we get feedback and as we
think about more things to do,
we'll be adding more API for the future.
So we're really interested in having
your feedback to sort of help us
focus what we need to do next.
The people to contact if you want to
actually send email to some human being.
John Signa is our technology manager.
You can mail him.
David Wright is our application manager.
He's our communications
technology manager.
You can mail him.
It's not on this slide,
but there's an email address,
graphics-feedback@apple.com
that will go to us.
And you can certainly send any
email you want to that address.
And we'll take a look at it.
For those of you who are
interested later today,
I guess actually right after
my talk in this same hall,
we'll have the Mac OS X advanced
printing session that will probably
touch on some aspects of Quartz.
And then a very important thing.
We're going to be open
until 5:00 on Friday,
the last day of the conference.
But we'd really love it if you
could make it to the feedback
forum for graphics and printing.
It would be super if you could do that.
So I'd like to have the
people in the team come up,
and we'll have some Q&A.